---
layout: page
title: search Eval#3 Week#12
author: "Vedant"
tags: ["week","gsoc","gsoc2020","search","eval#3","week#12"]
---

## Week Summary

Namaste 🙏 ,   
Welcome to the twelfth and final weekly blog of GSoC'20 for CDLI. 

### What did you do this week?

The final week of GSoC and I am pretty excited to complete all the deliverables. During this week, I implemented pagination for large sets of results. Then applied search settings on the search result page set using Search Settings Page. The most crucial task was filters for the search results. The task was divided into two parts, firstly to populate filters based on the current search results and second was to apply filters. The initial approach decided to apply filters was to perform operations on retrieved results which turn out to be time-consuming and quite complex. The next adopted approach was to modify the ElasticSearch query according to filters and handle it on the server-side. As a consequence, the response time was in seconds and expected results after filtering were fetched.

The advanced search is set up with all functionality and the same approach will be used to upgrade the current Simple Search. The final task addressed is to integrate Rocketchat with the framework and host it on the server. 


### What is coming up next?

In the upcoming week, upgrading the current Simple Search with filters and addressing minor issues related to the search.

The main part will be to update the documentation and submit the required code for the Final Evaluation. 


### Did you get stuck anywhere?

The pagination for large search results was a tricky part but an interesting one to solve the problem related to the large result sets. 


### Branch (worked on): 
1. [phoenix/feature/advanceSearch](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/tree/phoenix/feature/advanceSearch)

### Issues : 
1. **Closed or worked related to:**
  - [#298](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/issues/298)
2. **Opened:** No new issue created during this week.

### Pull Request : 
1. **Merged (or under review):**
  - [!163](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/merge_requests/163)
  - [!169](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/merge_requests/169)
2. **Reviewed:** No PR reviewed during this week. 


## Daily Work Update

|\#|Day|Date|A short description of the work done|  
|---	|---	|---	|---	|  
|1   	| Monday 	|   2020/08/17	| a. WIP : Advance Search (Pagination for large set of results) 	|  
|2   	| Tuesday  	|   2020/08/18	|  a. WIP : Advance Search (Pagination for large set of results) 	|  
|3   	| Wednesday  	|  2020/08/19 	|  a. WIP : Advance Search (Populate Filter options) 	|  
|4   	| Thursday  	|   2020/08/20	|  a. WIP : Advance Search (Integrating Search Settings). 	|  
|5   	| Friday  	|   2020/08/21	|   a. WIP : Advance Search (Applying filter to search results)	|  
|6   	| Saturday  	|   2020/08/22	|  a. WIP : Advance Search (Applying filter to search results) 	|  
|7   	| Sunday  	|   2020/08/23	|  a. Advance Search done with applied filter options. <br> b. Created PR [!169](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/merge_requests/169) <br> c. Rocket Chat testing.	|  
