---
layout: page
title: "API Week 10: Implementing Linked Data Mappings"
author: "Lars Willighagen"
tags: ["week","gsoc","gsoc2020","api","eval#3","week#10"]
---

Deliverable: HTML pages with microdata and metadata

## Week Summary

This week I finished the CIDOC-CRM mappings and implemented them as well in the
API. The mapping was amended based on initial work by Chiarcos et al. (2018).
I presented the results in my weekly mentor meeting, where we discussed difficulties
in the mapping and any problems with the database that arose. We also discussed
finishing the Inscription API, which I did the day after.

> The specific mappings will be discussed in a later week, since I made some
> amendments since.

In the weekend I started implementing the CIDOC-CRM mappings in the framework.
Earlier in the project, I had posted a question in the CakePHP forum about where
such mappings should be implemented. I was tempted to make views, since the mappings
are about presenting the data, in a way. However, at least in CakePHP the code
structure is not suited for mapping in-memory data in model-specific ways.

Naturally, I ended up implementing the mappings as part of the models instead.
This worked well, and the code still seems proper, at least to me. For some of the
mappings I had to implement additional associations between models, specifically
composites and witnesses belonging together, and seals and impressions. This took
some time as a result of the nature of how this information is stored in the database.

The deliverable of this week is not complete, but I made substantial progress on
the ones for week 5, 6 and 7.

### References

Chiarcos, C., Pagé-Perron, É., Khait, I., Schenk, N., & Reckling, L. (2018, May). Towards a Linked Open Data Edition of Sumerian Corpora. Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2018). https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/L18-1387

## Daily Work Update

| # | Day | Date       | A short description of the work done |
|---|-----|------------|--------------------------------------|
| 1 | Mon | 2020/08/03 | Work on CIDOC CRMarchaeo mappings for CDLI; fix seal number resolving ([!160](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/merge_requests/160)); implement image authorization ([!159](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/merge_requests/159)) |
| 2 | Tue | 2020/08/04 | Finish CIDOC CRMarchaeo mappings; have [!159](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/merge_requests/159) merged |
| 3 | Wed | 2020/08/05 | Present CIDOC-CRM mappings |
| 4 | Thu | 2020/08/06 | Finish Inscription API ([!149](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/merge_requests/149)) |
| 5 | Fri | 2020/08/07 | Suggest composite browsing design; update CakePHP ([!133](https://gitlab.com/cdli/framework/-/merge_requests/133)) |
| 6 | Sat | 2020/08/08 | Start implementing CIDOC-CRM mappings |
| 7 | Sun | 2020/08/09 | Map seals and composites to CIDOC-CRM |
